---
title: Profile
---

--8<-- "enumerate.html"

# TOSCA Software-Defined Car (SofDCar) Profile 1.0 Release Candidate

{{ autogenerated_notice('yarn docs:generate:sofdcar') }}

This document specifies the TOSCA Software-Defined Car (SofDCar) profile.
This profile includes normative TOSCA types for the domain of software-defined cars. 
Standardizing such normative TOSCA types improves interoperability.
For example, an ECU supplier can model and distribute the deployment and management of their ECUs using these types. 
Various OEMs can then import provided models and integrate them into their cars.
The specification is under active development and is not backwards compatible with any previous versions.


## TOSCA SofDCar Core Profile

The core normative TOSCA type definitions contain high-level type definitions which are mainly derived from the normative TOSCA type definitions of the [TOSCA Simple Profile in YAML 1.3](https://docs.oasis-open.org/tosca/TOSCA-Simple-Profile-YAML/v1.3/os/TOSCA-Simple-Profile-YAML-v1.3-os.html){target=_blank}.
These types mainly concern the following topics.

- Hardware and software of Electronic Computing Units (ECUs) which are typically microcontroller
- Hardware and software of high-performance computing platforms (HPCs) which are typically microprocessors 
- Sensors and actuators
- Communication channels

Considering the modeling communication, the TOSCA modeling approach is application centric meaning that, e.g., a CAN communication is modeled by relationships between the communicating software components. 
Thus, no (physical) CAN bus is modeled between the ECUs.
However, this might not provide all required information.
This issue is also discussed in the [networking section of the TOSCA specification](https://docs.oasis-open.org/tosca/TOSCA-Simple-Profile-YAML/v1.3/os/TOSCA-Simple-Profile-YAML-v1.3-os.html#_Toc26969482){target=_blank}.
In this section, the authors of TOSCA propose to have a TOSCA model for the application and a second separate one for the networking.
Therefore, we provide type definitions to model such an automotive TOSCA networking model which includes, e.g., a physical CAN bus.


--8<-- "sofdcar/tosca-sofdcar-profile-core.md"

## TOSCA SofDCar Extended Profile

The extended normative TOSCA type definitions contain additional high-level type definitions which are derived from the core type definitions.
These types mainly concern specific communications, such as CAN or FlexRay, but also ECUs and HPCs, such as Arduino or Raspberry Pi.

--8<-- "sofdcar/tosca-sofdcar-profile-extended.md"

## Appendix A "TOSCA SofDCar Profile"

This appendix contains the TOSCA SofDCar profile.
You can also download the profile [here](tosca-sofdcar-profile.yaml){download=tosca-sofdcar-profile.yaml}.

```yaml linenums="1"
--8<-- "sofdcar/tosca-sofdcar-profile.yaml"
```

## Appendix B "TOSCA SofDCar Core Profile"

This appendix contains the TOSCA SofDCar Core profile.
You can also download the profile [here](tosca-sofdcar-profile-core.yaml){download=tosca-sofdcar-profile-core.yaml}.

```yaml linenums="1"
--8<-- "sofdcar/tosca-sofdcar-profile-core.yaml"
```

## Appendix C "TOSCA SofDCar Extended Profile"

This appendix contains the TOSCA SofDCar Extended profile.
You can also download the extended profile [here](tosca-sofdcar-profile-extended.yaml){download=tosca-sofdcar-profile-extended.yaml}.

```yaml linenums="1"
--8<-- "sofdcar/tosca-sofdcar-profile-extended.yaml"
```

--8<-- "acd.md"
